---
layout: post
title:  "Blogging"
date:   2013-11-04 13:45:53
categories: general
---

I've been thinking a lot lately about what I should be doing. Since leaving
university and discovering ruby I've constantly been learning and growing and
really it's been easy. I've also been posting on here more often than I thought
I would when I started. It sounds self defeating, but I honestly wasn't sure
that I'd keep going after the first month. I'm glad I kinda have.

I signed up for thoughtbot's [learn prime][learnprime] program almost two months
ago now. Wow two months goes quickly. Now I'd listened to the [robots
podcast][robots] before but I really started listening to everything after
signing up for learn because I figured I'm using the paid stuff... might as well
consume the free stuff as well. Anyway, one of the latest podcasts, [let your
freak flag fly][podcast], [Ben][ben] interviews [Jeff Atwood][atwood], one of
the co founders of Stack Overflow and a rabid blogger.

[On his blog][atwood], Jeff talks about the thing that changed his life was
dedicating himself to a schedule and sticking to it with his posts. This brings
us to kind of an important question. Do you want to change your life? This is a
weird question to me. Mainly because I don't know how to answer it. I haven't
spoken much about myself on here so maybe now is a good time to do so. This blog
is ending up something I hadn't originally planned.

I'm massively lucky. Let's start there. I was born in England, I have two
fantastic parents that came from rubbish backgrounds but are both crazy driven
to succeed. One of their long term goals from before I was born was to move to
the US. The first ten years of my life they went through constant sacrifices to
always move towards what they wanted for our family. They decided often not to
go on holiday so they could rather invest money into their various business
ventures and were offered a few opportunities which would have made the short
term easier but they turned down for the long term. The next ten years they did
very well with their latest startup, so much so that my dad was able to quit his
job at IBM and work full time with my mum. This went well for them, and after 8
years they sold the business to move to the US. Due to visa reasons this
involved buying a similar company over here and basically starting again. These
people are incredible and are a constant support for me and my wife.

So I grew up in England, primary school was fairly nondescript, secondary school
(high school) I went to St. James Independent School for Boys. As you can tell
from the name this was an all boys school, it was also a private school which
mum and dad paid for by selling heat pads at fairs at the weekend. They ordered
the heat pads from Korea (I think) and we'd all go out and sell them at health
fairs and things. These were plastic shapes filled with concentrated sodium
acetate, which is basically the flavouring for salt and vinegar crisps, and a
metal disc that when you bend would agitate the liquid sodium acetate to become
solid. This would release heat, although not enough to burn, and once it had
cooled you could simply boil the whole thing to melt it back to it's liquid
state. I've just looked it up on wikipedia, [if your interested][heatpad].
Anyway, St James was awesome, if a little weird. That's probably for another
post though.

I never worked very hard at school. I did the bare minimum I could get away with
and during my teenage years I was a complete asshole. I'm amazed that people put
so much pressure and emphasis on a point in your life when your body is
physically causing you to be a dickhead. It seems very different for girls. For
guys we're completely insufferable and there's nothing you can do about it. It's
like you wake up one day, thirteen years old, and someones put a veil of hatred
over you and a device that makes you incapable of understanding what a complete
arse your being right now. The important thing is that it doesn't really matter
and no one should worry about it. I'm sure my parents did but they never took
serious action. In England we had two sets of major examinations. At 16 we take
our GCSEs which I suppose are like SATs and we can leave after that if study
isn't the most natural state. The next two years you study for A levels which is
basically preparation for university. In my first year of A levels I basically
decided to stop coming in to school and to instead spend most of my time in
World of Warcraft. It was glorious! However, at the end of the year we had
parent teacher interviews and it quickly came apparent that not only was I not
attending the rather expensive school my parents had paid for, but also that the
school didn't think it was worth mentioning until now. They were livid. Dad had
to send mum home and talk to me alone about getting my shit together, being
disappointed and all that jazz. Funnily enough I don't remember a lot about
this, I'm sure it was far more traumatic for them.

Anyway, over the summer I convinced myself that university was heaven on earth
and I had some offers for various university to study physics provided I got
high enough grades in my A levels. I can't remember where I applied but I
decided I would attend York University which was in the top ten for physics
programs and it was in the north, so far away from home. If I have any advice
for people choosing where to study, I would say pick somewhere far away from
home, it means you can't run away. Anyway I had one year to complete the two
year A levels I'd chosen. In England, you take around 10 GCSEs and they are
always include English, math and all that jazz, then when you start A levels you
basically pick 3 or 4 subjects you like and specialize down to that. So I had
Math, Physics and Computing as my three A levels (technically I also had further
maths which counts as another A level but I always ignore it). I was ready to
get my shit together and then the universe decided to toss things up. My math
teacher was diagnosed and died from cancer a month before term began which
threw the school into disarray. They basically managed to cover everything
except mine and two other boys further maths classes. Now my school was not at
all happy with their own solution, but there was also a all girls school with
students doing further maths, so they sent the three of us there.

This was awesome in so many ways. Maybe another post. I started dating my wife
who I met doing math problems (awww yeah) and I got the grades I needed to get
me to university. Maybe a quick note about choosing my degree as people seem to
get concerned about this a lot. I chose to do a degree in physics because it
required the least work at the time. My school was pushing people to choose
courses and I'd heard math was hard. I would have picked something easier, but
another requirement was that it pleased the most people. My parents seemed happy
with the choice and so did my teachers so I didn't give a shit about the
details. My dad was specifically against me choosing a computing degree as he
assumed it would be obsolete the day they awarded it.

Anyways I went to York University. Me and my girlfriend discussed breaking up as
she was going to university in Durham which was an hour and half drive or 40
minute train ride away. We stayed together and jumped between the two campuses,
I even went to a few physics lectures there to keep up. Over the summer I
applied to transfer to Durham and completed my degree there, even extending it
to a masters in theoretical physics. The year before we graduated I [proposed to
my wife][proposal] and we got married afterwards. At this point my parents had
moved to the US with my brother (although they of course came back for the
wedding) and my sister was studying for a law degree at York. As newlyweds, we
decided to come over to the US to see what all the fuss was about. My mother in
law is originally from New York so it was relatively straight forward to get me
a green card (my wife already a citizen) but it did take 6 months. We traveled
Italy for a while and did a fair bit of volunteer work while mooching off her
parents. When we finally got over here we mooched off my parents and I started
working for them sorting out IT problems. My wife has a masters degree in
chemistry so it wasn't long before she had a job and we moved into an apartment
close to my parents.

Over the last three years while living here I've been rapidly learning ruby on
rails and managing a large production app the hard (and quickest) way. I'm
currently waiting to hear back from an application I submitted to thoughtbot's
apprentice program. Wether I get accepted or not I'll post about it here.

[learnprime]: https://learn.thoughtbot.com/
[robots]: http://robots.thoughtbot.com/
[podcast]: http://podcasts.thoughtbot.com/giantrobots/70
[ben]: http://codeulate.com/
[atwood]: http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/
[heatpad]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heating_pad
[proposal]: http://vimeo.com/58738758
